Now that we have that,
let's go back to the slides,
and let's understand the browser,
how the browser works.
I'm not going to get too deep here, but
enough to understand where performance
solutions, or tips and hacks.
So why we are going to do some things.
So what happens when we browse the web?
So we need to talk about
the network layer, quickly.
We're not going to get too deep into
the fundamentals of networking, but
at least, basic enough to
understand what's going on.
The parsing part when
the browser is parsing the HTML,
the resource discovery phase,
where in this case,
the browser is discovering other assets,
other resources that are needed
to render the page, JPEG files,
JavaScript files, style sheet.
Then, the way that the browser
has to prioritize elements for
it needs to download 10 assets,
which one should download first?
Well, there is a process for that.
And then, layout and paint and
we won't get too deep into layout and
paint that has to do with how
the browser works with the GPU and
measuring stuff, and things like that.
I need to get out of the slides and
make a quick text file we're going
to do this in a simple, easy way.
So when you type www.frontendmasters.com,
what's going on?
Let's say it's the first time, it's the
first time you're going to that website.
The first step, and I'm talking about
the network layer, is a DNS query.
Actually, your browser needs the IP
address of the web server for
front-end master.
That's using a TCP connection, so
you need to connect to your own DNS server
that goes to check into
another DNS server.
There is a process there,
I'm not going to get too deep here.
But that DNS query might take,
without taking latency in consideration,
might take 100 milliseconds.
So in average, it can be more,
it can be less.
So 100 milliseconds without latency,
so if you are in 3G,
we need to have the latency,
remember the latency.
So when we have the IP address,
we need to make a TCP connection.
Actually, we're going to
start the HTTP connection.
Okay, but it started the TCP connection
that I'm not sure if you have experience
working with the network, but
there are at least, three messages that we
need to send and receive from the client
to the server that goes, right?
So that might take another 100,
120 milliseconds.
We still didn't get any HTML,
actually within request yet,
the HTML,
we are just opening the connections.
And now, we are working with TLS,
what's TLS, SSL, HTTPS?
So we know that today we
are all going to HTTPS, right?
Do you know why?
Why every website today should
be HTTPS and not HTTP anymore?
>> It's encrypted by default.
>> Yeah.
>> But it was encrypted by
default in the 90s as well, and
we didn't push every website to be HTTPS.
Is that because we didn't
care about security there?
Then, so does it make sense?
So the question is, yeah,
it's more secure, okay, cool.
But the same thing happened in
the early 2000, even 10 years ago.
Why is that we weren't actually pushing
every website into HTTPS as today?
Is today's security more important?
You may say, yeah, but
we have more bad actors, maybe.
But that's not actually, that's excuse,
not the real reason of
why we're doing this.
>> HTTPS allows for HTTP2?
>> HTTPS allows for HTTP2, but
that's a consequence, not a cost, so
the question is still there.
So why HTTP two?
In fact, let me tell you this, HTTP2,
the second version of the HTTP
language that we will see in a minute.
The spec doesn't require HTTPS, but
all the implementation from
the browser's are required is up.
So it's not really a requirement
from an spec point of view from
a protocol point of view.
So what's going on?
So I was simplify this really quickly,
but let's take HTTP2 as an example,
and this has to do with a lot
of research made by Google.
Google realized that there are a lot of
actors in the current backbone of the web,
that are not following
the HTTP protocol rules.
Example, let's say we create today HTTP14,
okay?
So HTTP14 means it's a TCP
request that in the header,
somewhere, it says HTTP14.
Well, the specs if l you're making
a proxy, a router, so you're making
a device that receives a packet and
sends the packet somewhere else.
When you receive the packet, if you wanna
open, let's say you wanna open that, and
you see a protocol that you don't know,
the full is to just forward the packet.
You are not responsible for making
a decision, but there are a lot of routers
out there that says, no, actually be 14,
no, that's probably wrong.
So let's discard the packet,
I'm simplifying this, but
just to give you an idea.
So with that in mind, we had a problem.
To evolve the protocols,
we need to change those routers and
we don't know who owns them,
where they are.
They probably has written 15
years ago based on Google
research on some countries.
Let's say China, there are a good
amount of routers doing that.
So we realized that to
improve the web's protocols,
we need a way to bypass that
without changing those routers,
and the way to do that is to
encapsulate those packets into
something that the router cannot read,
and that's HTTPS.
So HTTPS, because it's encrypted,
any proxy in the middle cannot actually
open the package and see what's inside,
and they just forward, the packet.
So that's the reason why we
are pushing this harder, or
we have been pushing this
harder in the past six years.
Not because of security, yeah,
we have a nice thing saying,
hey, this is more secure,
but it was before as well.
But that's why browsers today,
if you're in a website that is not secure,
will give you a warning.
Hey, this is a theta HTTP, we have
a problem, you don't send any form.
Yeah, that's a security thing, but
there is another problem behind,
and it was performance because we
couldn't move the protocols further
if we left them as they were, okay?
Does it make sense?
So that's actually the reason
why we need HTTPS.
And why not every website
10 years ago were HTTPS?
You know one reason?
There is one big reason of why.
10 years ago,
only 5% of the websites were HTTPS.
Changing protocols is hard?
>> No, because you're not
actually changing protocol,
you're just adding something
on your web server.
What's that something?
A certificate.
>> Certificate.
>> And that certificate was expensive.
Originally, I remember in the 90s, my
first HTTPS certificate that I bought for
a customer, it was if I remember
correctly $950 per year.
So yeah, when I do that, yeah,
maybe 10 years ago, that was better.
We had other companies
offering also certificates,
maybe you can get one by $30 per year,
but still it's something you need to pay.
But because that was a problem and
we all wanted to push HTTPS,
that's why there was a new organization
that you probably know, it's
called let's encrypt, it's a nonprofit
organization created by the browsers and
other companies to push HTTPS,
those are the founders and sponsor chip.
They wanna push HTTPS so
they provide you with a free SSL
certificate that wasn't possible before.
Now, that was a parenthesis to
understand why we need to move to HTTPS.
Anyway, because we need to move to HTTPS,
let's go back here.
We also need to make a process to
negotiate public keys and private keys.
That might also take 150, and
it depends on your servers.
So far, we haven't even request the file,
that's the next step, an HTTP request.
That is to, hey, I'm the browser,
now we are securely connected.
I have your IP address, I have a TCP
connection open with you, now I'm gonna
request a document, like your default
document in the route the index html.
So what's the problem with that?
So far, we have spent without
taking latency in consideration,
we haven't spent how much?
350, almost 400 milliseconds.
For our lashes contentful paint,
we have a budget of 2.5 seconds,
so yeah, that's a lot,
we're taking a lot from our budget, 10%.
We have just wasted, invested 10% of
our budget just in the network layer.
So now that you understand
that we have a budget,
there is a limited budget as any budget,
how important is just 100
milliseconds because sometimes,
you say well, 100 minute segments.
Yeah, but now we are adding more
handy 150, 100 from here, from there,
from there a way to reach our goal.
The user should see the largest
contentful paint within 2.5 seconds,
and this is without taking cellular
network latencies in consideration.
If you are on a 4G network or
a 3G network,
you may add 80 milliseconds
on each of those requests.
Okay, makes sense?
Well, what else?
We made the request and
then the server has two process,
that is what is known as the backend time.
If you are just requesting an static HML,
that's easy.
The server just go to the file system,
gives the file and give you the file.
But anyway,
that might take 200 milliseconds.
If you have a server side library, PHP,
Java, node.js, next.js, well,
that may take 500,
600 shots to get the final
HTML that we are still
using from our budget.
When the server is ready and he has the
string or the bytes that wants to send,
it grades and introduce the response
that goes over the downloading.
In fact, we didn't mention this but
this is using the app link of your
connection, and this is your downlink.
You know that when you have a network
connection, you have an uplink and
a downlink connection.
Typically, the uplink is slower in terms
of bandwidth, it has less bandwidth, okay?
So that's another thing to have in mind,
so then, the HTTP response appears and
then the browser, it starts the HTML
parsing, the document parsing.
So it start reading the HTML, we have
a tag, a head tag, we have a title tag,
and it's creating the dome on the fly.
And while it's finding
some other resources,
it's creating that idea of it's,
we've mentioned here is
the discovery phase.
So it's a resource discovery,
so it's discovering resources.
I need CSS, I need that were fun,
I need an icon, I need a PNG.
Okay, and it's creating a table,
and on that table,
it's also adding a prayer, it's setting
a priority for each resource, okay?
And after that, at one point,
the browser decided to render.
That inside,
it has more steps such as layout and
pain that we won't get too deep today.
But that means that a lot is happening
here, and when we understand what's
going on, we can make better
decisions on what to do and how.
Remember, my goal is for
you to feel bad today about how you're
doing things and you need to feel
the pain that is here to get.
We have a very limited budget and we need
to achieve the goal that in our website,
we are not achieving because when I'm,
let me close this,
when we are here, let me see if
this lighthouse is still there.
Yeah, we are not achieving largest
contentful paint in 2.5 seconds.
In fact, it says 7.5 seconds, so
this is pretty bad even
with a simple website.
Yeah, I pushed a couple of weird
things in that code on purpose
that we will see in a minute,
but that's the goal, okay?
Once we understand the process,
we can make things better.